# Dependency Injection

## About dependency injection

In general we suggest using Dependency Injection Pattern - this Patterns means nothing more than
if your object requires collaboration with others, then expect the user (or client)
of your object to set this dependencies from outside.

To use this pattern you don't need a seperate dependency injection container. 
But using this approach gives you higher testability and often leads to a cleaner and flexible architecture.
Typical "things" that can be injected are services, repositories or factories. If your object just expects a certain
"interface" the user/client of your object can decide what concrete object it wants your object to use.

It might sound like a "hen <-> egg" problem - because someone has to decide on the concrete instance that should
be injected.
 
So somewhere it need to start - and someone needs to inject the correct dependencies to your object - right?

This can be for example:
- the orchestration logic (normaly in the application layer) deciding which instance(s) to inject.
You can achive this without any framework support.
- a dependency registration concept - where you allow also other packages to influence which object should be injected.
This normaly requires a dependency injection container in the framework.

## DI Container in Flamingo

Flamingo Framework comes with a DI Container called Dingo.

The Container acts as kind of registry for services (objects of any type), factories and parameters.
The container can then return (or resolve) objects and can inject depenendcies automatically with some magic involved.

It is mainly used in the core for:

- managing different contexts and stateful objects (like routing) in the contexts
- registering ports and adapters
- ...


## When to use the depencency injection container in flamingo

- It is ok to not use the dependency injection container. In fact overusing the container adds unneccessary complexity.
When writing a package you should think of beeing able to also use it without the container
 So it is ok to:
	   - Explicitly initialize your object yourself and decide in the application layer what to inject (if you use dependency injection)
	   - Explicitly use your own factory directly 
	 
- However is makes sense to use it when:

    - You want to use a existing type that already uses dingo for DI
    - for every object that has a state that is depending on the running configuration-context, e.g. in a project where multiple configuration-contexts exist. 
      (because every configuration-context has its own initialized container the di container takes care of giving you the correct initialized instance.)
    - when you want some configuration to be injected
    - when you want to provide "others" (e.g. other modules) with Hooks
    - when you want to properly use the ports and adpaters pattern, to register interface(akka secondary ports) implementations 

## Read more
There is a full documentation of Dingo features in the dingo module:
[../2. Framework Features/Dingo.md]
