# Hello World Flamingo

## Preface

We start with a small setup before we will develop our first own module.

Flamingo projects consist of an entrypoint (which can be a simple `flamingo.App`) to load a context configuration tree.

Such a tree consists of modules which are loaded. A default `flamingo.App` routes only a root configuration node,
however more complex projects will need additional setups where we can route anywhere in the tree.
Usually you'll need something like the `prefixrouter.Module` to be able to route complex scenarios with
config inheritance, store-specific dependency injection etc.

## `main.go`

We start with a main go, which will be part of our `go.aoe.com/demo/flamingo` project.

Please create the folder `demo/flamingo` in your `go.aoe.com` folder, and add the following to a `Gopkg.toml` file:

(Please note: markdown can not properly render toml, the `constraint` should be __[__ __[__ constraint __]__ __]__ )

```toml
[[constraint]]
  name = "go.aoe.com/flamingo"
  branch = "master"
```

Now add a `main.go` file:

```go
package main

import (
	"go.aoe.com/flamingo/core/cmd"
	"go.aoe.com/flamingo/core/gotemplate"
	"go.aoe.com/flamingo/core/profiler"
	"go.aoe.com/flamingo/core/requestlogger"
	"go.aoe.com/flamingo/framework"
	"go.aoe.com/flamingo/framework/config"
	"go.aoe.com/flamingo/framework/dingo"
	"go.aoe.com/flamingo/framework/flamingo"
)

// main is our entry point
func main() {
	flamingo.App(config.NewArea( // flamingo.App is a quick loader which loads config from the `config` folder
		"root", // our root context name
		[]dingo.Module{
			new(framework.InitModule), // framework initialization
			new(cmd.Module),           // the cmd module provides command line support
            new(logrus.Module),        // the logger
			new(framework.Module),     // flamingo brings some helpful basic tools
			new(requestlogger.Module), // requestlogger show request logs
			new(profiler.Module),      // profiler helps to analyze requests etc
			new(gotemplate.Module),    // gotemplate installls a go template engine (in debug mode, todo fix this)
		},
	), "config")
}
```

Then run `dep ensure` to install flamingo in `vendor/`. (To obtain a copy of dep run `go get -u github.com/golang/dep/cmd/dep`.)

Also we need a few templates, go and create a folder `templates/` in your `demo/flamingo/` folder (`~/go/src/go.aoe.com/demo/flamingo/templates`), and put 2 files there:

`404.html`
```html
<h1>File Not Found</h1>
<hr/>
<pre>{{ .Error }}</pre>
```

`503.html`
```html
<h1>Server Error</h1>
<hr/>
<pre>{{ .Error }}</pre>
```

We need this setup to make the `gotemplate` Module not panic due to missing error-templates at all.

Now we are ready and can already go to the `flamingo` folder and start with `go run main.go`!

You can already start the server with `go run main.go serve` but you'll be stuck with 404 errors for now and maybe template engine errors.
(Obviously, since we do not have any routes registered.)

`flamingo.App` runs by default on port 3322, so go and visit http://localhost:3322/

You'll see log-output like
```
2017/10/16 20:37:24 404 | GET      |       962.792µs |     53 byte | /
```

The log output regarding config files is for information purposes. These places are currently checked for possible configuration files.

Also please note: the gotemplate module does not support subfolders and will reload templates on every request. This is slow and not intended for production!

## Modules

Now let's extend our project with a new module!

A module in Flamingo is usually in one of five possible locations:

- **PROJECTNAME**: This is the place where project modules live (e.g. "demo/flamingo")
- **framework**: This is the Flamingo framework core
- **core**: This is the Flamingo core, possibly open-sourced one day, and contains general Flamingo modules
- **om3**: This is the place where OM3 specific modules go which are generic enough for multiple projects, but not intended for core
- **_vendor_**: essentially everything from somewhere else such as github :)

A module always consists of a `Module` struct, usually in a file called `module.go`.

This struct defines the basic module dependencies, such as `RouterRegistry`.

The `Module` struct has to implement `dingo.Module`:

```go
type Module interface {
  Configure(injector *Injector)
}
```

The `Configure` method is responsible for the dependency injection and module registration.

You can read more in [Dependency Injection](/2.%20Framework%20Features/dependency-injection/index.html).

## Our first module

We start our first module by creating a new subfolder, called `helloworld` (it lives under the `flamingo/` folder).

In there we place a file `module.go`, and enter the following content:

```go
package helloworld

import "go.aoe.com/flamingo/framework/dingo"

type Module struct {}

func (m *Module) Configure(injector *dingo.Injector){}
```

Now we register the module by adding it in `flamingo/main.go`

```go
//...

import "go.aoe.com/demo/flamingo/helloworld"

//...

flamingo.App(config.NewArea(
		"root",
		[]dingo.Module{
        // ...
			new(helloworld.Module),  // add the helloworld module to the end of the list
		},
		// ...
```

Now we have our first module setup in Flamingo :)

## Controller

Let's try to get some life into it. Controllers work with two parts, _Routes_ and _Handlers_.

A _Route_ defines an URL path which is mapped to a controller key, e.g. `/helloworld` to `helloworld.view`.

A _Handler_ defines a controller which handles a request to a controller key, e.g. `helloworld.view` handled by `controller.IndexController`.

Abstracting these allows us to rewrite URLs for different locales and easily replace controllers.

To create our IndexController we first need the controller. A controller can implement multiple interfaces:

- `router.GETController`, called for `GET` requests:
```go
type GETController interface {
  Get(web.Context) web.Response
}
```
- `router.POSTController`, called for `POST` requests:
```go
type POSTController interface {
  Post(web.Context) web.Response
}
```
- `func(web.Context) web.Response`, called for any request
- `http.Handler`, called for any request

We start by creating our controller in the file `demo/flamingo/helloworld/interfaces/controller/index.go`

```go
package controller

import (
	"go.aoe.com/flamingo/framework/web"
	"strings"
)

// IndexController to handle /helloworld
type IndexController struct{}

// Get handles our GET requests
func (controller *IndexController) Get(ctx web.Context) web.Response {
	return &web.ContentResponse{
		Body: strings.NewReader("Hello World!"),
	}
}
```

Our controller returns a `ContentResponse` with the `Body` set to `Hello World!`.

Now we need to tell Flamingo where to find the controller. We update our `module.go`,
add the `RouterRegistry` as a dependency and create a _Route_ and a _Handler_:

(The `RouterRegistry` knows everything about routes and controllers. You can inspect it by running `go run main.go routes`)

```go
package helloworld

import (
	"go.aoe.com/demo/flamingo/helloworld/interfaces/controller"
	"go.aoe.com/flamingo/framework/dingo"
	"go.aoe.com/flamingo/framework/router"
)

type Module struct {
	RouterRegistry *router.Registry `inject:""`
}

func (m *Module) Configure(injector *dingo.Injector) {
	m.RouterRegistry.Route("/helloworld", "helloworld.index")
	m.RouterRegistry.Handle("helloworld.index", new(controller.IndexController))
}
```

Now we start flamingo by running, in the `flamingo/` folder, `go run main.go serve` and open [http://localhost:3322/helloworld](http://localhost:3322/helloworld)

We should see our `Hello World!` response.

## Render a template

The controller is fine, but we want some fancier content. For this we need a template and tell our Controller to render this template.

Currently we use the `gotemplate` module, but obviously this can be anything :) (our main Engine is `pugtemplate`, please have a look at 3. Tutorial Frontend Templating for Pug templates).

Templating is a topic on it's own, for now we use a simple template `helloworld.html` and place it in `flamingo/templates/`:

```html
<html>
<head></head>
<body>
<h1>Hello {{ .Name }}!</h1>
</body>
</html>
```

Now it's time to render the template. Flamingo has a couple of Responders-helpers, such as:

- `RenderAware` (make the Controller render templates)
- `RedirectAware` (make the Controller redirect to other controllers)
- `ErrorAware` (let the Controller throw errors)
- `JSONAware` (let the Controller return JSON responses (e.g. for APIs/Ajax-Helpers))

These make the controller _aware_ of a certain response behaviour, such as "being aware of _how to Render a template_".

We make our controller `RenderAware` by injecting the corresponding helper into our `IndexController`:

```go
import "go.aoe.com/flamingo/framework/web/responder"
//...
// IndexController to handle /helloworld
type IndexController struct {
	responder.RenderAware `inject:""`
}
//...
```

The `IndexController` is now `RenderAware`, which means it got a new method `Render(context web.Context, tpl string, data interface{}) *web.ContentResponse`

The `tpl` variable is the name of the template, in our case `helloworld.html`. `data` is optional Template data.

We modify our `IndexController` accordingly:

```go
func (controller *IndexController) Get(ctx web.Context) web.Response {
	return controller.Render(ctx, "helloworld", struct{Name string}{Name: "World"})
}
```

Yay! Great! Now restart the go server `ctrl+c`, then `go run main.go serve` and you should see the Hello World message! [Hello World](http://localhost:3322/helloworld/)

You will also notice a gray bar at the right top corner, clicking there brings you to more detailed information about the request, such as the controller etc.
This is the `profiler.Module` we activated in our `main.go`.

## Path parameters

"Hello World" is nice, but let's say hello to "you".

Now we want the "World" to be taken from the URL.

First, we change our route definition like this:

```go
m.RouterRegistry.Route("/helloworld", "helloworld.index(name=\"World\")")
m.RouterRegistry.Route("/helloworld/:name", "helloworld.index(name)")
```

Now `world` is a parameter available to our controller. If we omit the list of parameters in the brackets we get all path parameters.
If we have parameters in the list which are not part of the route Flamingo will use GET values to fill them up.

We will now have `/helloworld` and `/helloworld/name`, routed respectively.

We still default to `World`, so if nothing is set the controller uses the name `World`.

Now it's time to change our controller to get the request parameter via the request context:

```go
func (controller *IndexController) Get(ctx web.Context) web.Response {
	return controller.Render(ctx, "helloworld", struct{Name string}{Name: ctx.MustParam1("name")})
}
```

Now open [http://localhost:3322/helloworld/](http://localhost:3322/helloworld/) and compare to [http://localhost:3322/helloworld/you](http://localhost:3322/helloworld/you)

When we open our page now, we have a fancy rendered template :)
